[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: We added a lot of
new methods because new methods allow us
to provide new functionality
without new syntax, and so
that's where most of the attention went.
>> Douglas Crockford: We
added function.bind,
which was something that jQuery has
been promoting that allows you to
turn a method into a function so
that you can use it as a callback.
We added string.trim, so
we now have a method which will remove
the extraneous whitespace from a string.
This should have been in
the language from day one, right?
And it's just, it shouldn't have
taken this long to get that.
We've got-
>> Speaker 2: Does it trim on both sides?
>> Douglas Crockford: It trims both sides.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Douglas Crockford: We didn't fight
enough demands to do the individuals,
the left and
right versions, and
I haven't heard anybody complain about it.
If anybody does,
maybe we could get into his.
>> Speaker 3: So, you adjust the trim,
and, now, is that what it's doing,
or it's actually just more JS, or
is it written in a lower level?
>> Douglas Crockford: It
depends on the implementation,
it could be written in a lower level.
So, this is called poly filling,
it's also been called monkey patching.
It allows you to insert code into
the system, so when Brendan originally
designed the language,
he only had 10 days to do this prototype.
He was told that, or
he expected that if his demo didn't work
that Netscape would have done
something much stupider.
I don't know what it would have been,
I can't imagine what that would have been
but that was his [INAUDIBLE] so
he only had 10 days.
And he was pretty confident that he wasn't
going to get everything right in ten days,
but they're probably gonna need
to be some tweaks in the field.
So, he left almost
everything exposed on lot.
So, things which in a properly designed
language would be locked down or
completely open.
So, you can add things
to object.prototype, for
example, in a real language.
You shouldn't even be able
to see object.prototype,
you know all that stuff should be sealed.
And he did that, probably correctly,
because he figured
he didn't get everything right and
someday people were going to need to patch
the system in real time in order to make
it Work which is exactly what happened.
So there's all this stuff in the language
which is exposed including this.
If you take this code and run it on
an IE 6 browser or IE 7 or IE 8 browser.
Then they will work the same way as
IE ten with respect as trim.trim.
Now IE ten might have its own
implementation of this it might be
a native implementation so
it might run faster.
So this version IE six months slower.
I think that's great that's
exactly how it should be
We added a large new set of or
array methods and
I really like these methods of
design wasn't perfect but there.
They're good enough that we can use these
so most of these work the same way in that
you'll pass Call a method on an array and
pass in a function and
that function will get called for
each element of the array and
things will happen based
on what method you provide.
So the every method will keep doing
that behavior until a function
returns false and when a function
returns false then it stops doing that.
So that allows you to loop for
a time and then bail out similar to
what break might be doing in a for loop.
Filter will take all of the return values.
If the return value is true,
then the original element of the array
will be copied into a new array.
So it allows you to
take a bigger array and
produce a smaller array based on
what happens for each element.
For each is the thing that replaces a for
loop it just goes and
visits every element I like for each.
IndexOf will do a search, so
you can do a search in an array similar to
the searching you can do on strings Last
of searches, the array from the back end.
Map is maybe the most powerful of them,
it will take every return value from that
function and store it into a new array.
So you can do transformations and
you can do selections and
lots of new things using map.
Reduce will take in an array and
reduce it down to a single value, and
it'll do that by, you pass it a function
that function gets called for
pairs of values from the array.
For example if you pass the add function
to reduce, you'll get a total function.
If you pass a multiply function to
reduce you'll get a product function
then there is reduce right
which reduces from the other
end of the array I've not
found any reason for that.
I don't know why we did that,
but it's in there.
Some is similar to every except it
uses the opposite boolean value.
We added Date.now.
So it used to be,
if you wanted to get the real time clock
you'd have to do what this is doing.
You would make a new Date object
with the default configuration and
then extract its time.
So usually when you're getting the time
it's because you want to measure something
But this process of getting access to
the time adds a lot of latency and
so you can now call date now directly and
it'll give you the current
value of the real time clock.
Now browsers still add
a lot of latency and
operating systems also
add a lot of latency.
So it's not proven that this
actually does a better job but But
it's not so much JavaScript's fault.
now so that's gotten better
when the first standard was made
Netscape and Microsoft could not
agree on the language in the standard for
describing how date parsing works.
There's a date constructor
that can take a string And
it can then attempt to turn that
string into a date, object.
But they couldn't agree on the details for
how that worked.
So instead incorrectly,
they agreed to disagree by leaving
it completely unspecified.
So there is no language of the standard
that gives you a guarantee that
if you pass at this form
then it will parse.
Which is kind of bad.
Now since then, ISO has come up
with an international date format,
which is pretty nice.
Sometimes called ISO texts,ISO dates or
ISO strings.
Which you have a year then a dash,
then a month and a dash and so on.
So the date object will now
produce strings in that form.
And the date parsers are now
guaranteed to accept that form.
So we now have at least one date format
which is guaranteed to be acceptable.
So this is the first one we'll try.
If that one fails, then they'll fall back
on the under-specified proprietary ones.
But at least there's one
that's guaranteed to work.
>> Speaker 2: Question about those two.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So
the ISO format slide before this.
Everything was getting UTC times
whereas just one before so,
if you do two ISO string.
You're gonna get everything
based on the UTC time.
If you datetime.now,
are you gonna get server time?
>> Speaker 2: Or the time that the machine
that the code is running on thinks it is.
>> Speaker 3: You get
a data object which is UTC.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah at the data
object have some fundamental time.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Douglas Crockford: That's independent
of the current time zone
are situated right.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Douglas Crockford: So you're getting
that that core value.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
Thank you.
>> Douglas Crockford: We added
array.isArray to the language we tried to
fix type of and couldn't that there was
too much on the web that was dependent on
the broken behavior type of so instead we
added this horrendously ugly thing but
at least we got into that language And
Brendan had actually counted
the keystrokes and
this is smaller than the type of form.
So even I looks a lot worse,
it's actually a little bit smaller.
I managed to add object dot keys
which will give you an enumeration of
all of the Ownproperties of an object.
So you don't get
the inherited method names.
You only get the data members which
are the thing that you're probably
most concerned with.
And it returns it in the form of
an array which means you can then do for
each on it and so that's pretty nice.
>> Speaker 4: You proposed that?
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah I
proposed that.
>> Speaker 4: Cool,
I use that all the time and
then I do like .length just to
see how big this object is.
And stuff like that.
>> Douglas Crockford: You're welcome.
>> Class: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, sweet.
>> Speaker 3: You were talking about
earlier there, some, was it some?
>> Douglas Crockford: Yep.
>> Speaker 3: How is that different
than keys?
Keys is an array.
>> Douglas Crockford: Some is for
looping on an array.
It's the opposite of every.
>> Speaker 3: Every gives you all
the values, some gives you only one.
>> Douglas Crockford: Every gives you
everything as long as
the functions are returning true.
And some keeps working as long as
everything is returning false.
>> Speaker 3: It's operating
on the values not the keys.
>> Douglas Crockford: On the return
values that are based on the function
that is processing the keys.
Yes.
>> Speaker 6: Back on the dates there,
there is a question.
Are there any plans for
mutable date objects?
>> Douglas Crockford: Immutable
date objects?
>> Speaker 6: Yeah I don't
know what he means by that.
>> Douglas Crockford: We're going to get
to freeze you can freeze any date object
is that what he wants?
>> Speaker 6: I'm waiting.
I'm just going to ask for
clarification just go on.
>> Douglas Crockford: I also managed
to get object dot create Object.create
is the primitive which makes a new object
that inherits from another object.
In a prototypal language, this should
have been in the language from day one.
So instead we had the weird
thing with new and .prototype.,
so this gives us a direct way of doing
prototype inheritance, which is good.